Jobs improvements helpcenter documentation (#810)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/md/imports-exports/monitor-jobs.md

:::

# What's jobs' details?

Jobs' details are reports of your jobs.
In each job detail, you'll find information about the status of your job, and they may vary depending if they're started, stopped, failed or completed. These information are:
* Number of steps
* Time estimation above each step
* A table with the details of all actions performed under each step

To access a specific job's detail:
1.  Go to `Activity`/`Process Tracker`
1.  Search for the job you would like know more about
1.  Click on the desired job

# How to monitor your jobs?
## Imports & exports jobs

You can have more details when you execute an import or an export. To review their report:
1.  Go to `Imports` or `Exports`
2.  Select in the list the profile job for which you want to view the report
2.  You can clearly see the status of your import: `Started`, `Completed`, `Failed` or `Stopped` thanks to a color code
1.  Click on your import/export
1.  The import/export job details appear

![image](../img/Exports_Calculation5.png)

The details of the executing import/export job are shown on the page. The details are related to each executed import/export profile.

> ## Mass actions execution jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Mass action execution jobs
```

> You can have more details when you execute a mass action. To review their report:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can have more details about executing a mass action. To check the report:
```

Reviewer: report or job detail?

Author: "Job detail"

1.  Go to `Activity`/`Process Tracker` or click on the notification of the completed mass action

> 1.  The page of the report is then displayed with the details of the executed mass action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  The page of the report is displayed, it contains all the details about the executed mass action.
```

# What is a job?

Some actions trigger a back-end process called a "job". These actions can be:
- an [import](imports.html),
- an [export](exports.html),

> - a [mass actions](product-mass-actions.html),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a [mass action](product-mass-actions.html),
```

> - a calculation of [project](what-is-a-project.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a calculation of [project](what-is-a-project.html) _(EE only)_
```

- a [rule](what-is-a-rule.html) execution _(EE only)_

> - the approval/rejection of [approvals](proposals-workflow.html) _(EE only)_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- the approval/rejection of [proposals](proposals-workflow.html) _(EE only)_
```

:::

# What can you find in a job detail?

A job detail is a report of a specific job.
In each job detail, you'll find information about the status of your job, which may vary depending on their status: `Started`, `Completed`, `Failed` or `Stopped` with a specific color code. You will see:
* The number of steps
* A time estimation above each step
* A table with the details of all the actions performed under each step

To access a specific job detail:
1.  Go to `Activity`/`Process Tracker`
1.  Search for the job you would like to know more about
1.  Click on the job
![Job detail example](../img/Jobs_job-detail.png)

# How to monitor your jobs?
## Import & export jobs

You can get more details when you execute an import or an export job. To access the job detail:
1.  Go to `Imports` or `Exports`
1.  In the list, select the profile job you need
1.  Click on your import/export job
1.  The import/export job detail appear
![Jobs export/import profiles](../img/Jobs_export-import-profiles.png)

> The details of the executed import/export job are displayed and related to individual import/export profiles.

Reviewer 2: As a info note, you can also add that those jobs are also visible in the Process tracker page.

> ## Mass actions jobs

Reviewer 2: What about other jobs such as a rule execution or a project calculation?
You can be less specific in the title to cover them as well.

Author: I re-ordered the paragraphs, thanks

You can have more details about executing a mass action. To check the report:
1.  Go to `Activity`/`Process Tracker`
1.  Search for the job you would like to know more about
1.  Click on the job to get more details

> ![Jobs mass execution details](../img/Jobs_mass-actions.png)

Reviewer 2: The image has weird grey areas at the top and bottom. Maybe coming from the Figma filter?

* an [export](exports.html),
* a [mass action](product-mass-actions.html),
* a calculation of [project](what-is-a-project.html) _(EE only)_
* a [rule](what-is-a-rule.html) execution _(EE only)_
* the approval/rejection of [proposals](proposals-workflow.html) _(EE only)_

Here is what happens when you launch a job:

1.  First, you are notified by a flash message when a job starts. Friendly warning, the approval/rejection of proposals don't trigger flash messages.
![Jobs flash message](../img/Jobs_flash-message.png)
1. Then, while the job is running, it will be listed in the Process Tracker amongst all the other jobs you launched. To access it, go to `Activity` and click on `Process tracker`.
![List of jobs in process tracker](../img/Jobs_process-tracker.png)  
Note that you can also check the status of your launched jobs on the dashboard. To access it, go to `Activity` and click on `Dashboard`.
![List of jobs in dashboard](../img/Jobs_dashboard.png)
1.  Finally, when the job is complete, a notification appears at the top of your screen. You can always go back to the job itself if you need more details.
![Notification of a job complete](../img/Jobs_notification.png)

> # How to monitor?

Reviewer 2: As you removed this title, can you make sure it's not referenced somewhere else in the help center? If it's the case, you'll need to change the link to another one in order to make it work again.

Author: Done, 1 correction made

* The number of steps
* A time estimation above each step
* A table with the details of all the actions performed under each step

The `Last operations` widget on Akeneo dashboard will also give you the status of your launched jobs.
![image](../img/Dashboard_Calculation4.png)
To access a job detail:
1.  Go to `Activity`/`Process Tracker`
1.  Search for the job you would like to know more about
1.  Click on the job to get more details
1.  The job detail appear
![Job detail example](../img/Jobs_job-detail.png)

::: tips
If you want to view the jobs of all the users of your PIM (and not only yours), adding the [permission on action](manage-the-interface-and-actions-accesses.html#rights-on-system-pages) `View all jobs in Process Tracker` on your user role will grant you that privilege.
:::
# Searching for a job

If you want to find a specific job amongst all those listed in the process tracker, you can use the following search filters:
* By job name
* By type
* By user
* By status
![Process tracker search filters](../img/Exports_Process-Tracker-search-filters.png)

# How to stop your jobs?

> ## Imports & exports reports

Reviewer 2: As you removed this title, can you make sure it's not referenced somewhere else in the help center? If it's the case, you'll need to change the link to another one in order to make it work again.

Author: Checked, nothing to modify here. Thanks

- By type
- By user
- By status
![Process tracker search filters](../img/Exports_Process-Tracker-search-filters.png)

# How to stop your jobs?

It is possible to stop a running job if it was launched by mistake or if you need to review a product selection for instance. The jobs that can be stopped are the following:
* Export jobs
* Import jobs (except **families** and **family variants**)
* Mass actions (mass delete products, mass publish products, mass unpublish products)
* Rules (rules execution, calculation of impacted products)
* Proposals (approve all, reject all)

> Note that **stopping a job won't revert the actions already performed**: for instance, if you launched a mass action about an attribute for a selection of products and you realize a few minutes later that you selected the wrong products, if you stop the ongoing job, the modifications done before you stopped the job won't be reverted. You will have to mass edit the modifications back.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest adding a warning as it is pretty important. ;) 
```suggestion
:::warning
Note that **stopping a job won't revert the actions already performed**: for instance, if you launched a mass action about an attribute for a selection of products and you realize a few minutes later that you selected the wrong products, if you stop the ongoing job, the modifications done before you stopped the job won't be reverted. You will have to mass edit the modifications back.
:::
```

To stop a job, there are different ways that you will find in the sections below.

:::info
The ability to stop a job is defined at the role-level. Please read our [Interface and actions accesses](manage-the-interface-and-actions-accesses.html#rights-on-system-pages) documentation for more information.
:::

> ## Stopping a job from the Process Tracker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Stop a job from the Process Tracker
```

1.  Go to `Activity` then `Process Tracker`
1.  Search for the ongoing job you would like to stop

> 1.  Click on `STOP` at the end of the job's line

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Click on `Stop` at the end of the job's line
```

![Stopping a job from the process tracker](../img/Jobs_stop-job-process-tracker.png)

> ## Stopping a job from the job detail itself

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Stop a job from the job detail itself
```

1.  Go to `Activity` then `Process Tracker`
1.  Search for the ongoing job you would like to stop
1.  Click on the job you'd like to stop

> 1.  In the top right corner, click on `STOP`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  In the top right corner, click on `Stop`
```

![Stopping a job from the job detail](../img/Jobs_stop-job-detail.png)

> ## Stopping a job from an export/import profile

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Stop a job from an export/import profile
```

1.  Go to `Imports` or `Exports`
1.  Click on the right import or export profile
1.  Under `Last execution`, look for the ongoing job you would like to stop

> 1.  Click on `STOP` at the end of the job's line

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Click on `Stop` at the end of the job's line
```

- By status

![Process tracker search filters](../img/Exports_Process-Tracker-search-filters.png)

# How to stop your jobs?

> If you launched a job by error, or for any other reason, it is possible to stop an ongoing job. The jobs that can be stopped are the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to stop a running job if it was launched by mistake or if you need to review a product selection for instance. The jobs that can be stopped are the following:
```

> * All export jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Export jobs
```

> * All import jobs (except **families** and **family variants**)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Import jobs (except **families** and **family variants**)
```

* Mass actions (mass delete products, mass publish products, mass unpublish products)
* Rules (rules execution, calculation of impacted products)
* Proposals (approve all, reject all)

> Note that **stopping a job won't revert the actions already performed**: for instance, if you launched a mass action about an attribute for a selection of products and you realise a few minutes after that you selected the wrong products, if you stop the ongoing job, the modifications done before you stopped the job won't be reverted. You will have to mass edit back the modifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that **stopping a job won't revert the actions already performed**: for instance, if you launched a mass action about an attribute for a selection of products and you realize a few minutes later that you selected the wrong products, if you stop the ongoing job, the modifications done before you stopped the job won't be reverted. You will have to mass edit the modifications back.
```

> To stop a job, there are different ways described in the sections below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stop a job, there are different ways that you will find in the sections below.
```

:::info
The ability to stop a job is defined at the role-level. Please read our [Interface and actions accesses](manage-the-interface-and-actions-accesses.html#rights-on-system-pages) documentation for more information.
:::

> ## Stoppping a job from the Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stopping a job from the Dashboard
```

1.  Go to `Activity` then `Dashboard`
1.  Under `Last operations`, look for the ongoing job you would like to stop
1.  Click on `STOP` at the end of the job's line

> ## Stoppping a job from the Process Tracker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stopping a job from the Process Tracker
```

1.  Go to `Activity` then `Process Tracker`
1.  Search for the ongoing job you would like to stop
1.  Click on `STOP` at the end of the job's line

> ## Stoppping a job from the job details itself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stopping a job from the job detail itself
```

1.  Go to `Activity` then `Process Tracker`
1.  Search for the ongoing job you would like to stop

> 1.  Click on the desired job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click on the job you'd like to stop
```

1.  In the top right corner, click on `STOP`

> ## Stoppping a job from an export/import profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Stopping a job from an export/import profile
```

1.  Go to `Imports` or `Exports`

> 1.  Click on the desired import or export profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click on the right import or export profile
```

> 1.  Under `Last execution`, look for the ongoing job you would like to stopped

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Under `Last execution`, look for the ongoing job you would like to stop
```
